Assessment Task Detail and Instructions:
Note: The assessment is INDIVIDUAL and you cannot use the same idea as your group work or used in learning material
 (e.g. Movie dataset)

Objective:

To create a dataset using Semantic Data Technologies (i.e. a data model using an ontology, a dataset using 
RDF/RDFS) and an application interface (UI) that runs SPARQL queries at the back-end and executes results in 
human-readable format.

In Week 4, you will have individual meetings with your tutor to discuss your idea for the proposed application 
to check its feasibility.

Concept / Aim (05%)

You can choose any idea for the application considering if the application area is a suitable one for a 
semantic-based application? Are the aims both useful and achievable? e.g. an application where users can search 
or filter some data using search controls (like text fields, checkboxes and radio buttons).

Design (30%)

Use of RDF, RDF schema and Ontology design. You are encouraged to use existing RDF schema and Ontologies but will 
be assessed on your added value. This may be focused on creating your own, or extending/specialising existing 
frameworks, or using these in a knowledge-based application.

Implementation (20%)

Implementing a graphical user interface that will utilise the semantic dataset created in the Design phase 
(as explained above). You can use any programming language to implement the interface e.g. Java, PHP or C#. 
The interface should be executing at least 2-3 SPARQL queries.

Evaluation and Use (20%)

SPARQL queries to show how your system works. You should consider providing at least five different queries to 
show the use of the semantic concepts for your chosen application. Please provide queries with the screenshots 
for the results (either run on Protégé or your SPARQL end-point). These queries may include the queries from 
the step above (implementation).

Critical reflection (15%)

Critically reflect on your application. It may include a comparison of your application with alternative 
approaches that use semantic information as well as those that do not. You can consider the intended outcome 
for your application as well as the actual final result. It requires an extensive literature review.

 

Guidance Resources:
Example Assessments

Ideas for the project

Assessment Marking Criteria / Scheme:
 

Feedback Arrangements:
Written academic feedback through Canvas.

Links to important regulations / advice about late submissions etc